---
layout: default
title: "GIS DATA AND RESOURCES"
---

CEFE-CNRS, november 2016

**The aim of this document is to list free spatial data  and resources on the web for ecology and geography.**

**The data are identified by title, URL and keywords.** 


Climate
-------

Datasets from CRU, CGIAR, WorldClim

### Datasets from Climatic Research Unit

<http://www.cru.uea.ac.uk/data/>

Tags : `climate` `climate change` `world`



### CRU-TS v3.10.01 Historic Climate Database for GIS @ CGIAR-CSI

<http://www.cgiar-csi.org/data/uea-cru-ts-v3-10-01-historic-climate-database>

Tags : `climate` `climate change` `world` `cgiar`



### Global Aridity and PET Database @ CGIAR-CSI

<http://www.cgiar-csi.org/data/global-aridity-and-pet-database>

Tags : `drought` `world` `cgiar`

### Global High-Resolution Soil-Water Balance @ CGIAR-CSI

<http://www.cgiar-csi.org/data/global-high-resolution-soil-water-balance>

Tags : `drought` `climate` `world` `cgiar`

### IPCC Data Distribution Centre

Climate data from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)

<http://www.ipcc-data.org/>

Tags : `climate` `climate change` `world`

### WorldClim - Global Climate Data

Free climate data for ecological modeling and GIS

<http://www.worldclim.org/>

Tags : `climate` `future` `past` `world`

Digital Elevation Model
-----------------------

World elevation datasets : SRTM, ASTER, GEBCO, GMTED. STRM (30 m) is the
most widely used for high resolution. There are multiple URLS to obtain
SRTM ; download it from Reverb, CGIAR or remotepixel.ca. GMTED2010 (1
km) is a reference DEM for med resolution. Check GEBCO and NOAA products
for bathymetry. Use IGN DEM for France.

### ASTER Global Digital Elevation Map @ NASA

ASTER Global Digital Elevation Map presentation

<https://asterweb.jpl.nasa.gov/gdem.asp>

Tags : `dem` `aster` `remote sensing`

### Shuttle Radar Topography Mission (SRTM) @ NASA

STRM presentation on JPL/NASA website.

<http://www2.jpl.nasa.gov/srtm/>

Tags : `dem` `nasa` `world` `srtm`

### SRTM 90m Digital Elevation Database v4.1 @ CGIAR-CSI

SRTM processed by CGIAR to fill data voids at 90 m resolution. Now you
can find 30 m resolution on LPDAAC repository.

<http://www.cgiar-csi.org/data/srtm-90m-digital-elevation-database-v4-1>

Tags : `dem` `nasa` `srtm` `world`

### SRTM 1arc tile Mosaic @ Remote Pixel

Easy mosaic creation of USGS SRTM 1arc Elevation data

<https://remotepixel.ca/projects/srtm1arc-gl.html>

Tags : `srtm` `mosaic` `world`

### SRTM DEM processing and elimination of artefacts @ esoter.net

Interesting page about SRTM DEM processing

<http://www.esoter.net/content/srtm-dem-processing-and-elimination-artefacts>

Tags : `dem` `srtm` `processing` `about`

### General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans (GEBCO)

The General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans (GEBCO) consists of an
international group of experts who work on the development of a range of
bathymetric data sets and products.

<http://www.gebco.net/>

Tags : `bathymetry` `water` `world` `gebco`

### Global Multi-resolution Terrain Elevation Data 2010 (GMTED2010) @ USGS

GMTED2010 : World DEM at 1 km resolution by USGS

<http://topotools.cr.usgs.gov/GMTED_viewer/>

Tags : `dem` `gmted` `nasa` `world`

### GMTED Viewer @ USGS

GMTED2010 direct download (30s is about 1 km resolution)

<http://topotools.cr.usgs.gov/gmted_viewer/gmted2010_global_grids.php>

Tags : `dem` `gmted` `nasa` `world`

### Elevation Products @ USGS

Elevation Products at USGS Earth Resources Observation and Science
(EROS) Center.

<http://eros.usgs.gov/elevation-products>

Tags : `dem` `usgs` `world`

### Topography and Digital Terrain Data @ ngdc.noaa.gov

GLOBE dataset : 30-arc-second (1-km) gridded, quality-controlled global
Digital Elevation Model. ETOPO1 dataset : 1 arc-minute global relief
model that integrates land topography and ocean bathymetry.

<http://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/mgg/topo/>

Tags : `dem` `world` `noaa`

### BD ALTI @ IGN - Espace professionnel

Référentiel du relief sur la France, la BD ALTI est une gamme complète
de modèles numériques de terrain (MNT) qui décrivent la forme du terrain
à différentes échelles.

<http://professionnels.ign.fr/bdalti>

Tags : `dem` `france` `free data`

Environment
-----------

Datasets about protected areas, species distribution, forests, ecology
and ecoregions

### INPN - Cartes et information géographique

Téléchargement de cartes et information géographique (informations
relatives à la composition des couches SIG nationales de référence des
espaces naturels)

<https://inpn.mnhn.fr/telechargement/cartes-et-information-geographique>

Tags : `protected areas` `france` `biodiversity` `species`

### INPN - Référentiels Géographiques

Téléchargement de cartes et information géographique (informations
relatives à la composition des couches SIG nationales de référence des
espaces naturels)

<https://inpn.mnhn.fr/telechargement/cartes-et-information-geographique/ref>

Tags : `france` `reference grids`

### GECSC: Tree Species Distribution Maps for North America

Public website for the Geosciences and Environmental Change Science
Center (GECSC)

<http://esp.cr.usgs.gov/data/little/>

Tags : `north america` `trees` `ecology`

### Forest project @ JRC

The FOREST project focuses on analysing the role that forests play in
providing and ecological services, supporting the EU eco-industry and
bio-economy in a transition to a greener Europe

<http://forest.jrc.ec.europa.eu/effis/>

Tags : `land cover` `forests` `world`

### New global 25m-resolution PALSAR mosaic and forest/non-forest map

Observed images, research and application examples using ALOS (PRISM,
AVNIR-2 and PALSAR) and ALOS-2 (PALSAR-2).

<http://www.eorc.jaxa.jp/ALOS/en/palsar_fnf/fnf_index.htm>

Tags : `forests` `land cover` `world`

### Protected Planet

Protected Planet is an online platform where users can access statistics
and download data on protected areas for information-based decision
making, policy development, and business and conservation planning. It's
managed by the United Nations Environment Programme's World Conservation
Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC) with support from IUCN and its World
Commission on Protected Areas (WCPA).

<http://www.protectedplanet.net/>

Tags : `protected areas` `vector` `world`

### Resources Data - UNEP-WCMC

UNEP-WCMC delivers analysis and interpretation of data and information
about biodiversity, in engaging and accessible ways.

<http://www.unep-wcmc.org/resources-and-data>

Tags : `vector` `protected areas` `word` `economy`

### Spatial Data Download @ IUCN

IUCN Red List Spatial Data

<http://www.iucnredlist.org/technical-documents/spatial-data>

Tags : `ecology` `species` `vector` `world`

### Conservation Science Data and Tools @ WWF

Spatial datasets by WWF

<http://www.worldwildlife.org/pages/conservation-science-data-and-tools>

Tags : `wwf` `ecology` `ecoregions`

European Union
--------------

European Environment Agency (EEA), Eurostat, JRC products.

### Data and maps @ European Environment Agency

EEA data & maps search page

<http://www.eea.europa.eu/data-and-maps#tab-datasets>

Tags : `coastline` `corine land cover` `data portal`
`european community` `lakes` `water`

### Datasets @ European Environment Agency

Downloadable data about Europe's environment. Filter by topics to find
data about biodiversity & land use (Corine).

<http://www.eea.europa.eu/data-and-maps/data>

Tags : `coastline` `corine land cover` `data portal`
`european community` `lakes` `water`

### Geographic Information System of the COmmission (GISCO) @ Eurostat

<http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/gisco/overview>

Tags : `countries` `data portal` `economy` `european community`
`population`

France / IGN
------------

Links to free and non-free datasets on IGN website. Most of the
access-restricted datasets are free for research purpose (send a message
to cyril.bernard@cefe.cnrs.fr). Orthophotos and scanned maps can be
displayed in QGIS without download with OGC webservices - access limited
to laboratory personnel (send a message to cyril.bernard@cefe.cnrs.fr).

### BD Carthage 2014 @ IGN

FREE. Direct access to BD Carthage (french rivers DB) from Sandre
website. See the description on IGN Catalogue.

<http://services.sandre.eaufrance.fr/telechargement/geo/ETH/BDCarthage/FXX/2014/arcgis/>

Tags : `france` `water` `rivers` `ign` `lakes`

### GEOFLA @ IGN - Espace professionnel

FREE. Administrative boundaries at 1 : 1 000 000 scale. Générée chaque
année à partir de la BD CARTO®, la base de données GEOFLA® décrit le
découpage administratif national (France métropolitaine et DOM). Elle
est dédiée aux applications de géomarketing ainsi que de cartographie
statistique et thématique à des échelles voisines du 1 : 1 000 000.

<http://professionnels.ign.fr/geofla>

Tags : `france` `ign` `administrative boundaries` `free data`

### RGC @ IGN - Espace professionnel

FREE. Administrative entities database (CSV format). Répertoire
Géographique des Communes, au format CSV.

<http://professionnels.ign.fr/rgc>

Tags : `ign` `france` `administrative entities` `free data`

### Photographies aériennes @ IGN - Espace professionnel

FREE. Past aerial pictures. Les photographies aériennes dématérialisées
du territoire français peuvent être visualisées en ligne et téléchargées
gratuitement. Sont également proposés des tirages papier ou la
duplication sur CD-ROM de plus de 4 millions de clichés. Les photos
aériennes sont librement réutilisables.

<http://professionnels.ign.fr/pva>

Tags : `ign` `historical data` `france` `aerial photograph`

### Catalogue @ IGN - Espace professionnel

All the IGN products. Vue d'ensemble des produits IGN

<http://professionnels.ign.fr/catalogue>

Tags : `france` `ign`

### IGN WMTS webservice

Données du Géoportail sous forme de web service WMTS pour afficher dans
QGIS. Accès réservé : demander le mot de passe à
cyril.bernard@cefe.cnrs.fr

<https://wxs.ign.fr/b934wfstv017ffzoezlg17t3/geoportail/wmts/?SERVICE=WMTS&REQUEST=GetCapabilities>

Tags : `france` `ign` `wmts`

France / Insee
--------------

Population, administrative boundaries

### Bases de données - Les résultats des recensements de la population @ Insee

Point d'entrée sur le site Insee pour le téléchargement des données
concernant la population légale et d'autres données du recensement comme
le logement, l'emploi.

<http://www.insee.fr/fr/bases-de-donnees/default.asp?page=recensements.htm>

Tags : `france` `insee` `population`

### Découpage communal : table d'appartenance géographique des communes @ Insee

BD de référence pour le découpage communal, les EPCI (communauté de
communes, communauté d'agglomération), les départements et régions.

<http://www.insee.fr/fr/methodes/default.asp?page=zonages/table-appartenance-geo-communes.htm>

Tags : `administrative entities` `france` `insee`

### Données carroyées sur la population - Données carroyées à 200 mètres @ Insee

Données spatialisées pour SIG : 18 variables sur la structure par âge
des individus, les caractéristiques des ménages (locataire/propriétaire,
etc.) et les revenus au 31 décembre 2010

<http://www.insee.fr/fr/themes/detail.asp?reg_id=0&ref_id=donnees-carroyees&page=donnees-detaillees/donnees-carroyees/donnees-carroyees-200m.htm>

Tags : `france` `population` `insee` `iris`

France / Land Cover
-------------------

Corine Land Cover and other Land Cover DB

### Téléchargement des données CORINE Land Cover

Page de téléchargement des données CORINE Land Cover France (raster ou
vecteur), 1990-2012 =&gt; c'est ici !

<http://www.statistiques.developpement-durable.gouv.fr/clc/fichiers/>

Tags : `corine land cover` `france` `land cover`

### Base de données géographique CORINE Land Cover (CLC)

Base de données géographique CORINE Land Cover (CLC) \[Données en ligne,
Territoires, CORINE Land Cover\] : Observation et statistiques

<http://www.statistiques.developpement-durable.gouv.fr/donnees-ligne/li/2539/0/base-donnees-geographique-corine-land-cover-clc.html>

Tags : `corine land cover` `france` `land cover`

### Couches haute résolution

Couches haute résolution \[Données en ligne, Territoires\] : Observation
et statistiques

<http://www.statistiques.developpement-durable.gouv.fr/donnees-ligne/li/2499.html>

Tags : `corine land cover` `derived products` `france` `land cover`
`remote sensing` `tree cover`

### Evolution de l'occupation du sol entre 2004 et 2012 @ Montpellier Méditerrannée Métropole

Evolution de l'occupation du sol entre 2004 et 2012 sur le territoire du
SCOT. Site Opendata de Montpellier Méditerrannée Métropole.

<http://data.montpellier-agglo.com/?q=node/201>

Tags : `montpellier` `land cover`

France / Regional Geoportals
----------------------------

Portails régionaux de l'Information Géographique

### Accueil @ SIG-LR

Languedoc-Roussillon - Portail régional de l'Information Géographique
Orthophoto, MNT, Occupation du Sol, BD Sol et autres

<http://www.siglr.org/>

Tags : `languedoc-roussillon` `dem` `orthophoto` `aerial photograph`
`land cover`

### Données @ SIG-LR

<http://www.siglr.org/idg-lr/les-donnees.html>

Tags : `data portal` `languedoc-roussillon`

### CRIGE - PACA

Centre Régional de l'Information GEographice PACA

<http://www.crige-paca.org/>

Tags : `data portal` `paca`

### CRAIG - Centre Régional Auvergnat de l'Information Géographique

<http://www.craig.fr/>

Tags : `auvergne` `data portal`

### MIPYGéo

RESPIRE

<http://www.mipygeo.fr/accueil>

Tags : `midi-pyrenees` `data portal`

### GEORHONEALPES

GEORHONEALPES

<http://www.georhonealpes.fr/accueil>

Tags : `rhone-alpes` `data portal`

### PIGMA - Plateforme d’Information Géographique Mutualisée en Aquitaine

La plateforme de l’information géographique mutualisée en Aquitaine est
un outil d’aide à la décision répondant aux exigences de la directive
européenne Inspire. Pour valoriser l’information géographique en
Aquitaine, un catalogue de données régionales et un visualiseur sont
accessibles en ligne.

<http://www.pigma.org/>

Tags : `aquitaine` `data portal`

### GéoBretagne

<http://cms.geobretagne.fr/>

Tags : `bretagne` `data portal`

### Sigale @ Région Nord-Pas de Calais

Système d'Information Géographique (SIG) de la Région Nord-Pas de Calais
: cartographie dynamique, cartes thématiques, atlas, téléchargement,...

<http://www.sigale.nordpasdecalais.fr/>

Tags : `data portal` `environment` `nord-pas-de-calais`

### PPige - Nord - Pas de Calais

<http://www.ppige-npdc.fr/portail/>

Tags : `data portal` `nord-pas-de-calais`

### CIGAL - Alsace à la carte

Portail de la Coopération pour l'Information Géographique en Alsace
(CIGAL). Géoportail pour la recherche, la visualisation, le
téléchargement de données conformes à INSPIRE.

<https://www.cigalsace.org/portail/>

Tags : `alsace` `data portal`

France / Various
----------------

France, portails divers

### GéoCatalogue

GéoCatalogue : Page de recherche

<http://www.geocatalogue.fr/>

Tags : `data portal` `environment` `france`

### data.gouv.fr

Plateforme Opendata du gouvernement.

<https://www.data.gouv.fr/fr/>

Tags : `opendata` `france` `agriculture` `parcels`

### Annuaire de la Géomatique et des SIG &gt; Données

Annuaire de données sur Georezo

<http://georezo.net/annuaire/donnees-c-4-p-2.html>

Tags : `france` `data portal`

Geology, Soils
--------------

### Data @ ISRIC World Soil Information

Access to ISRIC project-related data sets : WoSIS, SoildGrid

<http://www.isric.org/content/data>

Tags : `soil` `world`

### ISRIC SoilGrids1km visualisation and distribution website

ISRIC SoilGrids1km visualisation and distribution website

<http://soilgrids.org/>

Tags : `soil` `world`

### InfoTerre @ BRGM

InfoTerre, le visualiseur des données géoscientifiques du BRGM

<http://infoterre.brgm.fr/>

Tags : `france` `geology`

### Datasets @ ESDAC - European Commission

The European Soil Data Centre (ESDAC) contains currently many soil data
and information; most of the offered data are at European scale, while,
when possible, links to national or global datasets are provided.
Datasets are organized in some broad categories.

<http://eusoils.jrc.ec.europa.eu/resource-type/datasets>

Tags : `soil` `europe`

Hydrology
---------

### BD Carthage 2014 @ IGN

Direct access to BD Carthage (french rivers DB) from Sandre website. See
the description on IGN Catalogue.

<http://services.sandre.eaufrance.fr/telechargement/geo/ETH/BDCarthage/FXX/2014/arcgis/>

Tags : `france` `water` `rivers` `ign` `lakes`

### HYDRO1K @ USGS

HYDRO1k is a geographic database developed to provide comprehensive and
consistent global coverage of topographically derived data sets,
including streams, drainage basins and ancillary layers derived from the
USGS 30 arc-second digital elevation model of the world (GTOPO30).

<https://lta.cr.usgs.gov/HYDRO1K>

Tags : `derived products` `rivers` `water` `world`

Miscellaneous
-------------

### MIT GIS data & docs

MIT GIS data & docs

<http://libraries.mit.edu/files/gis/>

Tags : `samples` `training` `misceallenous`

### GDAL Raster Formats

List and specs of raster formats managed by GDAL/OGR (software library
included in QGIS, GRASS, rgdal)

<http://www.gdal.org/formats_list.html>

Tags : `gdal` `opensource` `raster formats`

### OGR Vector Formats

List and specs of vector formats managed by GDAL/OGR (software library
included in QGIS, GRASS, rgdal)

<http://www.gdal.org/ogr_formats.html>

Tags : `gdal` `opensource` `vector formats`

### Reading the ABCs from Space : Feature Articles

Some people see animals or omens in the clouds and landscape. We see
letters.

<http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Features/ABC/>

Tags : ``

Remote Sensing / General
------------------------

General data portals for satellite imagery and resources

### Reverb | ECHO

NASA + USGS data portal. Helpful to download MODIS products and many
other free satellite products. You will need to create an Earthdata
login. User interface with basket : order products and download them
with http link or with curl.

<http://reverb.echo.nasa.gov/>

Tags : `data portal` `modis` `nasa` `remote sensing` `srtm`

### Reverb | ECHO Tutorial

Tutorial for NASA Reverb - Earth Observing System Clearing House -
Earthdata Wiki

<https://wiki.earthdata.nasa.gov/display/echo/Reverb+Tutorial>

Tags : `modis` `srtm` `aster` `nasa` `remote sensing` `avhrr`
`data portal`

### EarthExplorer @ USGS

Query and order satellite images, aerial photographs, and cartographic
products through the U.S. Geological Survey.

<http://earthexplorer.usgs.gov/>

Tags : `data portal` `usgs` `remote sensing` `world`

### EarthExplorer Bulk Tutorial @ USGS

EarthExplorer Bulk Tutorial

<http://earthexplorer.usgs.gov/resources/Bulk_tutorial_ee.pdf>

Tags : `data portal` `remote sensing` `usgs` `world`

### USGS Global Visualization Viewer

USGS Global Visualization aka GLOVIS. Another US data portal. Need
updated Java runtime to work. Rather old. Use Earth Explorer instead.

<http://glovis.usgs.gov/>

Tags : `data portal` `usgs` `remote sensing` `world`

### Earthdata Search @ NASA

Search NASA Earth Science data by keyword and filter by time or space.
Yet another US data portal.

<https://search.earthdata.nasa.gov/>

Tags : `data portal` `modis` `nasa` `remote sensing` `srtm` `world`

### Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer - AVHRR @ NOAA Satellite Information System (NOAASIS); Office of Satellite and Product Operations

NOAA Satellite Information System, NOAASIS, National Environmental
Satellite Data and Information Service, NESDIS, National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, NOAA, Department of Commerce.

<http://noaasis.noaa.gov/NOAASIS/ml/avhrr.html>

Tags : `about` `avhrr` `remote sensing`

### Remote Pixel | Projets

Access and play with Earth Observation data. Various online tools and
download service with Landsat, SRTM and Sentinel data.

<https://remotepixel.ca/projects/index.html>

Tags : `data portal` `modis` `remote sensing` `srtm` `landsat`

### Sentinels Scientific Data Hub @ copernicus.eu

The Sentinels Scientific Data Hub provides complete, free and open
access to Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 user products.

<https://scihub.copernicus.eu/dhus/#/home>

Tags : `data portal` `european spatial agency` `imagery`
`remote sensing` `sentinelle` `world`

### Séries Temporelles @ CESBIO

The world famous "Séries Temporelles" blog - Great source of information
about satellite imagery and image processing.

<http://www.cesbio.ups-tlse.fr/multitemp/>

Tags : `about` `atmospheric corrections` `landsat` `processing`
`remote sensing` `sentinelle` `spot`

### Theia - Land Data Center

Sentinel-2 images with atmospheric corrections. Données Sentinel-2 de
niveau 2A distribuées par THEIA. Les produits de niveau 2A servent à
corriger les effets atmosphériques et à détecter les nuages et leurs
ombres. Le traitement des données est fait avec la chaîne MACCS par le
centre de traitement MUSCATE du CNES, pour le compte du centre de
données Theia.

<https://theia.cnes.fr/atdistrib/rocket/>

Tags : `atmospheric corrections` `cnes` `data portal` `imagery`
`landsat` `remote sensing` `sentinelle` `world`

### Produits | Theia - Pôle Thématique Surfaces Continentales

What can I get through Theia ? Différents types d'image distribués par
Theia. Theia met à disposition de la communauté scientifique une vaste
panoplie d’images à différentes échelles.

<https://www.theia-land.fr/fr/presentation/produits>

Tags : `cnes` `data portal` `imagery` `landsat` `remote sensing`
`sentinelle` `world` `geosud` `avhrr`

### ISIS Programme

Accès aux images SPOT à tarif préférentiel pour la communauté
scientifique européenne travaillant sur des projets de recherche.

<http://www.isis-cnes.fr/>

Tags : `cnes` `remote sensing`

### GeoStore @ Airbus Defence and Space

Search Spot and Pleaides scenes by ID or location (not free, just to
consult the catalog)

<http://www.geo-airbusds.com/fr/4952-geostore>

Tags : `about` `imagery` `remote sensing` `spot`

### Accueil - Portail de l’EQUIPEX-GEOSUD

Plateforme d'accès aux images de l'Equipex Geosud

<http://ids.equipex-geosud.fr/web/guest/catalog>

Tags : `data portal` `france` `geosud` `remote sensing`

### Global Land Cover Facility @ UMaryland

The Global Land Cover Facility (GLCF) provides earth science data and
products to help everyone to better understand global environmental
systems. In particular, the GLCF develops and distributes remotely
sensed satellite data and products that explain land cover from the
local to global scales.

<http://glcf.umd.edu/data/>

Tags : `aster` `land cover` `landsat` `modis` `derived products`
`tree cover` `srtm`

Remote Sensing / Landsat
------------------------

Landsat Imagery is available for free on NASA & USGS portals. Check
atmosphere-corrected images on CNES website. Note that many processing
services based on imagery have risen from Landsat 8 (see remotepixel.ca
and Libra websites).

### Remote Pixel | Projets

User-friendly interface to download and process Landsat 8. Click and see
evolution of NDVI + other online tools.

<https://remotepixel.ca/projects/index.html>

Tags : `data portal` `modis` `remote sensing` `srtm` `landsat`

### Landsat 8 Bands @ Landsat Science NASA

About Landsat 8 characteristics

<http://landsat.gsfc.nasa.gov/?page_id=5377>

Tags : `about` `imagery` `landsat` `remote sensing`

### A Landsat timeline @ Landsat Science NASA

A Landsat timeline : a closer look at Landsat through time

<http://landsat.gsfc.nasa.gov/a-landsat-timeline/>

Tags : `about` `landsat` `remote sensing`

### Frequently Asked Questions @ Landsat Missions USGS

Landsat FAQ

<http://landsat.usgs.gov/tools_faq.php>

Tags : `about` `landsat` `remote sensing`

### What are the band designations for the Landsat satellites ? @ Landsat Missions USGS

About Landsat 8 characteristics

<http://landsat.usgs.gov/band_designations_landsat_satellites.php>

Tags : `about` `landsat` `remote sensing`

### Band Combinations for Landsat 8 @ ArcGIS Blog

About Landsat 8 characteristics

<http://blogs.esri.com/esri/arcgis/2013/07/24/band-combinations-for-landsat-8/>

Tags : `about` `imagery` `landsat` `remote sensing`

### Libra browser for Landsat 8

User-friendly interface to browse and download Landsat 8

<http://libra.developmentseed.org/>

Tags : `imagery` `landsat` `remote sensing` `world`

### Download landsat scene.py @ Séries Temporelles CESBIO

Download Landsat scenes from Python script

<http://www.cesbio.ups-tlse.fr/multitemp/?page_id=3099>

Tags : `landsat` `remote sensing` `imagery` `sentinel`

Remote Sensing / MODIS (LPDAAC)
-------------------------------

The Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) instrument is
operating on two satellites, Terra and Aqua. It views the entire surface
of the Earth every one to two days. Its detectors measure 36 spectral
bands and it acquires data at three spatial resolutions: 250-m, 500-m,
and 1,000-m. MODIS data are available through Land Processes Distributed
Active Archive Center (LP DAAC) at https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/

### MODIS Overview @ LP DAAC

Must read about MODIS. All about MODIS filename convention, resolution,
frequence, sensors.

<https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/dataset_discovery/modis>

Tags : `about` `daac` `modis` `remote sensing`

### MODIS Products Table @ LP DAAC

MODIS Products Table : NASA Land Data Products and Services

<https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/dataset_discovery/modis/modis_products_table>

Tags : `modis` `nasa` `daac` `data pool` `remote sensing` `world`

### Data Pool @ LP DAAC

Data Pool : direct access to data by HTTP.

<https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/data_access/data_pool>

Tags : `daac` `data pool` `modis` `nasa` `remote sensing` `world`

### MEaSUREs @ LP DAAC

"Making Earth Science Data Records for Use in Research Environments"
(MEaSUREs) projects : long-term, consistent, high-quality data records
to the land remote sensing community.

<https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/dataset_discovery/measures>

Tags : `daac` `data pool` `modis` `nasa` `remote sensing` `world`

### MEaSUREs Products Table @ LP DAAC

These links will direct you to specific information and access points
for each of the NASA MEaSUREs data products distributed from LP DAAC.

<https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/dataset_discovery/measures/measures_products_table>

Tags : `daac` `data pool` `modis` `nasa` `remote sensing` `world`
`about`

### Global Browse Images for MODIS land products

<http://landweb.nascom.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/browse/browse.cgi>

Tags : `modis`

### Time Series Database from the Global Agriculture Monitoring (GLAM) Project @ UMaryland

250-meter MODIS/NDVI Time Series Database from the Global Agriculture
Monitoring (GLAM) Project

<http://pekko.geog.umd.edu/usda/test/>

Tags : `modis` `monitoring` `real-time` `world`

### Data Sets @ National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSDIC)

MODIS snow cover and sea ice data sets from NSIDC

<https://nsidc.org/data/modis/data_summaries>

Tags : `snow` `ice` `modis` `remote sensing` `world`

World / Global geoportals and datasets
--------------------------------------

Various global geoportals

### GeoNetwork @ FAO

The FAO GeoNetwork provides Internet access to interactive maps,
satellite imagery and related spatial databases maintained by FAO.

<http://www.fao.org/geonetwork/srv/fr/main.home>

Tags : `agriculture` `environment` `world` `africa` `asia`
`south america`

### data @ WorldGrids

WorldGrids.org hosts global environmental layers in a standardized
format. WorldGrids are used as input for global soil mapping i.e. to
produce SoilGrids.

<http://worldgrids.org/doku.php?id=source_data>

Tags : `administrative entities` `climate` `data portal` `dem` `forests`
`free data` `modis` `nasa`

### Data Archive @ CGIAR-CSI

<http://www.cgiar-csi.org/data>

Tags : `agriculture` `climate` `dem` `water` `world`

### Earth Resources Observation and Science (EROS) Center @ USGS

Find data @ EROS Center. With Landsat and other remotely sensed land
data, EROS provides science information and imagery to monitor, assess,
and project land change of a changing Earth.

<http://eros.usgs.gov/find-data>

Tags : `usgs` `world`

World / Maps, web maps
----------------------

Free vector and raster map data, WMS map

### Natural Earth

Free vector and raster map data at 1:10m, 1:50m, and 1:110m scales.

<http://www.naturalearthdata.com/>

Tags : `basemap` `world` `raster` `vector` `countries` `boundaries`
`rivers` `lakes` `coastline` `water`

### VMap0 data in ESRI shape format @ GIS-Lab

VMap0 is a vector map of the world released by US National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency with political boundaries, main rivers
and roads. It is now integrated in NaturalEarth DB so the best option in
to use NaturalEarth. However, this page allows to download VMap0 in ESRI
shape format.

<http://gis-lab.info/qa/vmap0-eng.html>

Tags : `countries` `coastline` `boundaries` `world`

### GSHHG @ ngdc.noaa.gov

A Global Self-consistent, Hierarchical, High-resolution Geography
(GSHHG) Database : provides shorelines and rivers. Shorelines are
organized into 4 hierarchical levels: boundary between land and ocean
(L1), boundary between lake and land (L2), boundary between
island-in-lake and lake (L3), and boundary between pond-in-island and
island (L4).

<http://www.ngdc.noaa.gov/mgg/shorelines/gshhs.html>

Tags : `coastline` `lakes` `water` `world`

### OpenStreetMap Data Extracts @ geofabrik.de

This server has vector data extracts from the OpenStreetMap project
which are normally updated every day. Data available in shapefiles
(.shp.zip) and OSM (.osm.bz2) formats.

<http://download.geofabrik.de/>

Tags : `basemap` `crowdsourcing` `land cover` `openstreetmap` `roads`
`water` `world`

### OpenStreetMap

OSM online data : crowdsourced cartography. Different rendering are
avalaible. Mapnik and OpenTopoMap are available in QGIS via
QuickMapServices plugin.

<http://www.openstreetmap.org/>

Tags : `basemap` `crowdsourcing` `land cover` `openstreetmap` `roads`
`water` `world`

### QuickMapServices: easy basemaps in QGIS @ NextGIS

Short doc about QuickMapServices : a QGIS plugin from russian company
NextGIS, allowing basemaps from OSM, NASA, ESRI, Google, Bing. Be aware
of potential license issues with non-free basemaps.

<http://nextgis.com/blog/quickmapservices/>

Tags : `basemap` `world` `qgis`

### Esri Maps and Data @ arcgis.com

Esri Maps and Data (available in QGIS with QuickMapServices plugin)

<http://www.arcgis.com/home/group.html?owner=esri&title=ESRI%20Maps%20and%20Data&sortField=numviews&sortOrder=desc>

Tags : `arcgis` `basemap` `esri` `world`

### Bing Maps

Web maps by Microsoft (available in QGIS with QuickMapServices plugin)

<http://www.bing.com/maps/>

Tags : `webmap` `world`

### watercolor @ stamen.com

Artistic web map based on OSM data (available in QGIS with
QuickMapServices plugin). Stamen's watercolor map style is lovingly
crafted.

<http://maps.stamen.com/watercolor/#11/43.6109/3.8761>

Tags : `webmap` `world`

### Demis WMS 4.0 Documentation

High Performance Web Mapping Server Demo with global basemap data, using
OpenGIS protocols

<http://www.demis.nl/home/pages/wms/docs/opengiswms.htm>

Tags : `wms` `world` `basemap`

### Perry-Castañeda Library Map Collection @ utexas.edu

Great collection of scanned maps from every part of the world (no GIS
data).

<http://www.lib.utexas.edu/maps/>

Tags : `basemaps` `maps` `world`

### International Map of the World 1:1M @ Perry-Castañeda Map Collection

Graphical index for 1:1 000 000 scale world map by US Army

<http://www.lib.utexas.edu/maps/imw/index_world.html>

Tags : `basemaps` `maps` `world`

### Maps and other GIS for Africa @ madmappers.com

An comprehensive collection of vector and raster maps and data for
Africa

<http://www.madmappers.com/>

Tags : `africa`

World / National Geoportals
---------------------------

### GeoSinager

El Sistema Integrado de Información y Alerta Para la Gestión del Riesgo
de Desastres – SINAGER-SAT, a cargo del Viceministerio de Defensa Civil,
es la base de información de amenazas, vulnerabilidades y niveles o
escenarios de riesgo, de vigilancia, observación y alerta, de capacidad
de respuesta y de parámetros de riesgo al servicio del SISRADE, para la
toma de decisiones y la administración de la gestión de riesgo.

<http://geosinager.defensacivil.gob.bo/>

Tags : `bolivia` `data portal` `risk management`

### GeoBolivia

GeoBolivia 2.0: la Infraestructura de Datos Espaciales del Estado
Plurinacional de Bolivia

<http://geo.gob.bo/>

Tags : `bolivia` `data portal`

### Centro de Descargas @ cnig.es

Direct link to download for free topographic maps, orthophoto and high
resolution DEM from Spain. En el Centro de Descargas del CNIG puede
descargarse gratuitamente la información geográfica digital producida
por el IGN

<http://centrodedescargas.cnig.es/CentroDescargas/catalogo.do;jsessionid=85B99819D96C529630FFA26FD20FC85A#selectedSerie>

Tags : `spain` `data portal` `dem` `orthophoto` `maps`

### Geoportal IDEE

Geoportal de la Infraestructura de Datos Espaciales de España que
permite el acceso a servicios interoperables de información geográfica
de varios órganos, organismos o entidades de una o varias
Administraciones Públicas

<http://www.idee.es/>

Tags : `spain` `data portal` `OGC web services`

### Instituto Geográfico Nacional

El Portal Web del Instituto Geográfico Nacional tiene carácter
divulgativo y orientativo, y pretende poner a disposición de cualquier
persona interesada información geográfica.

<http://www.ign.es/ign/main/index.do>

Tags : `about` `spain` `maps`

### Institut Cartogràfic i Geològic de Catalunya

Consulteu, descarregueu i utilitzeu al vostre web, mapes i ortofotos de
Catalunya, entre altra cartografia. Trobeu aquí, també, recursos
geodèsics, mapes i llibres antics, articles tècnics i vídeos
divulgatius.

<http://www.icc.cat/Home-ICC/Geoinformacio-digital>

Tags : `catalonia` `data portal`

### Bhuvan | Gateway to Indian Earth Observation

Geo-Platform of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), by National
Remote Sensing Centre

<http://bhuvan.nrsc.gov.in/bhuvan_links.php>

Tags : `india` `data portal` `remote sensing`

### Geoportale Nazionale

Italian national geoportal

<http://www.pcn.minambiente.it/GN/fr/>

Tags : `data portal` `italy` `OGC web services`

World / Land Cover
------------------

### National Land Cover Database (NLCD) @ MRLC

USA National Land Cover Database (NLCD) download for 2011, 2006, 2001.
Hosted by Multi-Resolution Land Characteristics Consortium (MRLC)

<http://www.mrlc.gov/nlcd11_leg.php>

Tags : `land cover` `usa` `usgs`

### Global Land Cover Network (GLCN) @ FAO-GLCN

GLCN Land Cover datasets for african countries. Global Land Cover
Network (GLCN) : The global alliance for standard multi-purpose land
cover data production.

<http://www.glcn.org/dat_1_en.jsp>

Tags : `land cover` `remote sensing` `africa`

### Global Land Cover - SHARE 2014 @ FAO-GLCN

New FAO land cover product: the "Global Land Cover-SHARE (GLC-SHARE)".

<http://www.glcn.org/databases/lc_glcshare_en.jsp>

Tags : `land cover` `remote sensing` `world`

### Global Land Cover 2000 @ JRC

European Commission - Joint Research Centre - Forest Resources and
Climate Unit

<http://forobs.jrc.ec.europa.eu/products/glc2000/products.php>

Tags : `world` `land cover` `forests`
